Fix lineage integration doc (#1568)
astronomer/docs: astro/set-up-data-lineage.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Integrate lineage'
title: "Integrate lineage with external systems"
id: set-up-data-lineage
description: Configure your external systems to emit OpenLineage data to Astro with Apache Airflow.
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

> [Data lineage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_lineage) is the concept of tracking data from its origin to wherever it is consumed downstream as it flows through a data pipeline. This includes connections between datasets and tables in a database as well as rich metadata about the tasks that create and transform data. You can observe data lineage to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Data lineage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_lineage) is the concept of tracking data from its origin to wherever it is consumed downstream as it flows through a data pipeline. This includes connections between datasets and tables in a database as well as rich metadata about the tasks that create and transform data. This guide describes what lineage data is automatically extracted on Astro and how to integrate external applications, including Databricks and dbt, that require additional configuration. To view data lineage on Astro, see [View data lineage](data-lineage.md).

Data lineage data can help you:
```

Author: Hm I played around with this Rob and I still think I like the logical order of:

- what is data lineage
- what can u get out of it
- what are you going to learn in this doc

- Trace the history of a dataset.
- Troubleshoot run failures.
- Manage personally identifiable information (PII).
- Ensure compliance with data regulations.

> This guide provides information on which lineage data is automatically extracted on Astro and how to integrate external systems, including Databricks and dbt, that require additional configuration. To learn about how to view data lineage on Astro, see [View data lineage](data-lineage.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Data lineage on Astro

> To view data lineage from across your ecosystem, lineage data first needs to be extracted from external systems and stored in a lineage backend. Astro uses the [OpenLineage Airflow library](https://openlineage.io/integration/apache-airflow/) (`openlineage-airflow`) to extract lineage from Airflow tasks and stores that data in the Astro control plane. The latest version of the OpenLineage Airflow library is installed on [Astro Runtime](runtime-image-architecture.md) by default.

Reviewer: ``
To view data lineage data, it first needs to be extracted from an external application before it is stored in a lineage backend. Astro uses the [OpenLineage Airflow library](https://openlineage.io/integration/apache-airflow/) (`openlineage-airflow`) to extract lineage from Airflow tasks and stores that data in the Astro control plane. The latest version of the OpenLineage Airflow library is installed on [Astro Runtime](runtime-image-architecture.md) by default.
```

2. Copy the value in the **Lineage API Key** field.
3. Specify your Organization's OpenLineage API key in the external system's configuration.

## Snowflake and OpenLineage with Airflow

> Lineage data emitted from [Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/en/) is similar to what is collected from other SQL databases, including Amazon Redshift and Google BigQuery. However, Snowflake is unique in that it emits [query tags](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/object-tagging.html#what-is-a-tag) that provide additional task execution detail that other databases don't provide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lineage data emitted from [Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/en/) is similar to what is collected from other SQL databases, including Amazon Redshift and Google BigQuery. However, Snowflake is unique in that it emits [query tags](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/object-tagging.html#what-is-a-tag) that provide additional task execution details.
```

When you run a task in Airflow that interacts with Snowflake, the query tag allows each task to be directly matched with the Snowflake query or queries that are run by that task. If the task fails, for example, you can look up the Snowflake query that was executed by that task and reduce the time required to troubleshoot the task failure.

To emit lineage data from Snowflake:

1. Add a Snowflake connection to Airflow. See [Snowflake connection](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-snowflake/stable/connections/snowflake.html).
2. Run an Airflow DAG or task with the [`SnowflakeOperator`](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake/modules/snowflakeoperator) or `SnowflakeOperatorAsync`. This operator is officially supported by OpenLineage and does not require additional configuration. If you don't run Airflow on Astro, see [Extract lineage data from external systems to Astro](#extract-lineage-data-from-external-systems-to-Astro).

### Data collected

When you run an Airflow task with the `SnowflakeOperator`, the following data is collected:

- Task duration

> - SQL queries. Only CREATE statements are currently supported.
> - Query duration. This is different from the Airflow task duration.
> - Input datasets
> - Output datasets
> - Quality metrics based on dataset and column-level checks, including successes and failures per run

Author: ```suggestion
- SQL queries. Only CREATE statements are currently supported
- Query duration. This is different from the Airflow task duration
- Input datasets
- Output datasets
- Quality metrics based on dataset and column-level checks, including successes and failures per run
```

> To view this data, select a SnowflakeOperator task in the **Lineage** tab of the Cloud UI and click on the dataset. See [View data lineage](data-lineage.md#view-metrics-for-a-specific-run-or-dataset).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view this data, select a SnowflakeOperator task in the **Lineage** tab of the Cloud UI and click the dataset. See [View data lineage](data-lineage.md#view-metrics-for-a-specific-run-or-dataset).
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/205065407-71f25efd-e235-4eeb-b704-557c8cfad43d.png)

:::tip

> The ability to view source SQL code for [supported Airflow operators](data-lineage-support-and-compatibility.md#supported-airflow-operators) in the **Lineage** tab of the Cloud UI is off by default for all Workspace users. To enable source code, set the following [environment variable](environment-variables.md) for each Airfow Deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability to view source SQL code for [supported Airflow operators](data-lineage-support-and-compatibility.md#supported-airflow-operators) in the **Lineage** page of the Cloud UI is off by default for all Workspace users. To enable source code, set the following [environment variable](environment-variables.md) for each Airflow Deployment:
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/205066515-ef3ebec4-cc3d-48c3-a4aa-525ceae82117.png)
